About the Project
*****************

The µGame project aims to make it easy and fun to make arcade-style video games
in Python. It does that by developing a hardware platform, in form of a
handheld game console, and a software platform, in the form of the firmware for
that console.

The project started in 2017 with a series of ten prototypes using commonly
available and cheap parts. The final version, µGame 10, has been released and
is available both in the form of a kit, and as a repository of design files.
The software is based on Adafruit's CircuitPython firmware, with a number of
helper Python libraries included to make game development easier.

There is also a number of games and demos available, including a tutorial
contained in this documentation. Everything is kept in the `project's GitHub
organization. <https://github.com/python-ugame>`


Licensing
=========

All parts of this project are available under open licenses. The hardware is
released under a Creative Commons SA-BY license, and all the code is released
under a permissive MIT license. You can fork, develop and produce your own
versions of whatever this project contains.


Contributing
============

Contributions of all kinds are very welcome. You don't have to be a programmer
or a hardware engineer to help! There is always something to do.

The most important way you can contribute is by helping everyone else — whether
by answering their questions, writing about what you are doing with the device,
making available anything you have made, or improving the documentation.

The Stage library is in very early stages of development right now, and it is
supposed to stay rather lean and simple, so contributing there may be hard, but
you can always develop additional libraries and game frameworks that better fit
some of the tasks.

Creating and sharing assets (graphics and sound) is also a great way to
contribute -- just make sure you make it clear how they can be used by adding
an appropriate license.


Community and Support
=====================

For learning and help with CircuitPython itself, it's best to head to
`Adafruit's Discord server <http://adafru.it/discord>` and ask on the
``circuitpython`` channel.

If you prefer a bit more old-school means of communication, there is also
a ``##ugame`` IRC channel on `Freenode <http://freenode.net>`.

Please use the GitHub's issue tracker to report any bugs you find. Also, `the
wiki <https://github.com/python-ugame/ugame-docs/wiki>` is available, so you can
share any information you think would be useful.
